# Bluebikes_Demand_Forecasting

BlueBikes is a service that allows people to rent bicycles for a fee for a limited time, usually by the hour or day. In many cities around the world, BlueBikes have become a popular mode of transportation. As people become more aware of the environmental impact of transportation, BlueBikes has emerged as a viable and cost-effective alternative to traditional modes of transportation. However, external factors such as weather, air quality, seasons, and Covid-19 can have a significant impact on BlueBikes systems. As the popularity of BlueBikes services grows, it is critical that these companies accurately forecast demand for their bikes in order to satisfy a rapidly growing customer base. The ML forecasting models allow BlueBikes companies to predict demand for bikes over different time periods and see if any factors, such as seasonal, air quality, and weather conditions, affect demand. This will benefit the consumer by ensuring greater accuracy with bike availability for use, reducing the risk of a customer wanting to use a bike but not having access to one.

The motivation for this project is to explore the relationship between BlueBikes demand and external factors such as weather, air quality, Covid-19, and seasons. BlueBikes’ station-based loaning system creates a need for forecasting demand. With a station-based loaning system, a user picks up a bike from a docking station and returns it to any station which means Bicycles must be available at a docking station for the user to rent the bicycle. 
				
The goal of this project is to develop a machine learning model that will forecast the number of bikes rented daily based on historical rider data and other variables such as weather, Air quality, Covid-19 and Seasons. Predicting daily bike ridership can help identify fluctuations and trends that could support the bike rebalancing system as well as business decisions such as the need for additional stations. When weather or air quality is bad, people might be reluctant to rent a shared bike. Demand for bikes might be higher in summer than harsh winters. The impact of Covid-19 on bike renting demand will also be analyzed, with confirmed cases and deaths analyzed with a one-day time lag. We aimed to pinpoint the most important features that can accurately predict bike demand.
